---
title: 'GM’s Guide: Military Campaigns'
date: '2018-12-09'
categories:
  - 'our-materials'
---

Posted on July 18, 2017 by Imperium Romanum  
Building Military Campaigns  
As you might expect, a military campaign involves a lot of mass combats. Although mysteries, dungeon crawls, and wilderness adventures all come up occasionally, mass combats will be the plurality, if not the majority, of a military campaign. As such, this is a campaign type for people who like to fight major wars and build large empires almost exclusively. For those who like world domination but also want to be closer to the action and/or roleplay more often (not to say that military campaigns are devoid of roleplay, but it does become more rare as the amount of combat skyrockets), a sphere of influence campaign might work better.

A mass combat game divides the world up into a few dozen territories. Each territory has an army attached to it, which is usually at least six or seven individual units. Big enough that you could fight a mass combat with it if you had to, but small enough that you’d rather not. Some territories, densely populated and wealthy ones, might support a much bigger number of units in their army. For example, Waterdeep has a huge population and plenty of money, so their army holds something like twenty units. On the other hand, some territories are sparsely populated and contain relatively few units in their army. Icewind Dale, for example, might have as few as four units in their army. Each army can do basically two things: It can move, or it can replenish itself.

A military campaign’s turns are each one season long, and most units can only move and fight during spring, summer, and autumn. Some settings might have a different set of seasons, for example, they might have three dry seasons (which in-character would just be referred to as one dry season, but it’s three times as long as a temperate season) and one rainy season, and depending on how heavy the rains are, standard units may or may not be able to move and fight during the rainy season. For (usually) three seasons out of the year the party can push their armies forward and conquer new lands, and then in winter there’s a chance for courtly intrigue or some good old fashioned dungeon crawling before spring comes and the armies march again.

Winter is also a perfect opportunity to replenish the lost forces of an army. An army must have a supply line connecting it to its home territory to replenish and if it replenishes it cannot move or attack, which means if an army replenishes during another season, it will get left behind. An army that is replenished gets back all of its destroyed units, but you can only put the squeeze on one territory so many times before it stops producing any new forces. The second time you try to replenish the same army, you can only replenish up to half the units in that army (which can still bring it up to full strength if it was at one half or more strength to begin with), and the third time you replenish an army, you get only a quarter of the units for that army. An army can only be replenished three times. After that, there’s simply no more bodies that territory can spare.

Some, perhaps even most, of the territories on the map will be more or less neutral. Perhaps not neutral in the sense that they may in fact be full of hostile raiders who are basically at war with you most or all of the time, but neutral in the sense that they aren’t fighting total war until you bring an army to their doorstep. These enemies defend their territory with their army, and once the party has captured the territory, that army will flee into neighboring territory if they have an more territories or allied territories adjacent to retreat into or, if they don’t, disband. The party must then use the full refresh of the territory to raise the army again, which means except for their starting territory and any territories brought in diplomatically, they must use the first and only full refresh of a territory just to get an army out of that territory at all.

Some enemies might expand their territories much more voraciously than others, being actual rival nations with their own expanding empires. There are two ways to approach the fights between these rival empires and small, neutral nations. Players (but not usually their characters) can take control of the neutral nations’ armies for the mass combats, fighting perhaps against overwhelming odds to try and do as much damage to the enemy army as possible, softening them up for when they confront the enemy army with their own forces. Alternatively, you can compare forces, make some rough estimates about how many of the enemy empire units would be defeated, roll the INT saves to see if those units are annihilated or not, and get back to the game.

Either way, enemy empires should be common and aggressive. If there’s only one (which is usually wise if this is the first military campaign you’ve run), it should have territories fairly close to the party’s starting territory, so that the party is fairly quickly fighting an enemy who can field armies just as large as they can. Once the party has a few territories under their belt, the army they can bring to bear against a neutral territory will be massive enough as to be a foregone conclusion. The main role of neutral nations past the first few battles of the campaign is to tie down some of the party’s forces. A neutral territory next to a completely undefended territory, or just one lightly defended enough that the neutral territory is confident in victory, might take advantage and capture it, immediately cutting off one of the party’s armies from being replenished (you can’t have a supply line running from the home territory to the army with no hostile forces intervening if the home territory is itself a hostile territory). Even worse, some neutral territories might capture a territory that cuts off a mountain pass or blockades a port or otherwise controls some chokepoint, squeezing off half a dozen of the party’s armies from reinforcements. As the party advances, they will need to either dedicate time and forces to clearing out low value territories or else leave behind armies to keep the inhabitants of those low value territories from getting any ideas.

On a map with multiple enemy empires, as the party gets more powerful, the enemy empires should begin banding together to stop them. This naturally escalates the scale of the conflict so that the party begins as one territory fighting other one-territory neutral enemies, then fights a single enemy empire with four or five territories once they have four or five themselves, and after conquering that empire they’re confronted by a pair of neighboring empires who between them have similar territory to the party’s now sizable empire, and so on. If you want to have only one enemy empire but you’re insistent on making the map very large, devise some reason why the enemy empire won’t bring all of their forces to bear on the party’s growing forces immediately. Maybe there’s a friendly empire on the other side of the enemy keeping the bulk of the enemy forces busy, but being slowly overwhelmed by a more powerful foe.

Since each territory produces an army with an average of about six units, you don’t want the total number of territories to be larger than about three dozen. Even with that number, you want about half the territory to be neutral and make sure enemy empires keep the party’s attention so that most of that neutral territory remains neutral rather than the party gobbling it all up before attacking their larger rivals. With 36 territories, a battle between the party empire and an equally large rival (or coalition of rivals) who have divided the world between them would have 18 territories for an average of 108 units a piece. While you want the final battle to be larger than the standard mass combat, and while some units will have been annihilated and be unable to be replaced during the build up, a fight with anything even close to a hundred units per side will see each side ordering a comically small number of their units into battle each turn. Keep the pressure up and make sure that the players end up picking and choosing which neutral nations they want to invade. If that sounds like a balancing act you can’t manage, stick to smaller maps. A twelve territory map will lead to a final battle of 36 units to a side if evenly matched. That’s a very large battle, but not completely unmanageable.

GM’s Guide: Intrigue Campaigns  
Posted on July 17, 2017 by Imperium Romanum  
Intrigue Campaigns  
An intrigue campaign revolves around a web of relationships within a council (which can be a king’s court, or a senate, or a college of cardinals, or any other group of a relatively small number of very powerful people). This council has de facto (if not de jure) control over an organization much too powerful for the party to influence directly, the generic example being a king and his council having control over a kingdom that commands armies and resources much greater than the party could possibly contend with. The king technically has final say over everything, but he doesn’t want to upset his powerful dukes or alienate his vital ministers, or he might find himself the target of a coup or even just commanding a lame duck court that performs all tasks ineptly because they despise the person they work for and cannot be fired. As such, even though the king has de jure power to do anything he wants, he is de facto more like the head of an aristocratic legislature than an undisputed monarch. He probably has veto and tie-breaking authority, but he isn’t all-powerful.

In order to control the kingdom (whether there are specific policies they want implemented or they just want to force the king to abdicate the throne to them or what) the party must control the council, and to do that, they must master both the favor economy and the relationships the councillors have to one another and their courtiers.

The Favor Economy

The favor economy is a concept of medieval aristocracy that tends to crop up quite a bit in all societies where the most important status symbols cannot be purchased for any amount of money (in medieval aristocracy, this status symbol is land, which was almost never for sale precisely because it was considered so much more valuable than anything else by the aristocrats who controlled it). The idea is that if you do someone a favor, then they owe you a favor in return, and it’s exactly as vague and open to interpretation as it sounds. Helping someone win a battle against invaders might be repaid by their vouching for your honesty when you’re accused of being responsible for an assassination. Helping someone pay a debt to a guild of banker/knights might be repaid by their voting in the king’s council to launch a pre-emptive strike on the Underdark. There is no exchange rate, there is no act that’s worth two favors, and if two people disagree over whether a favor has been repaid, they either take it to their lord (in the case of people as powerful as councillors, this is probably their king) or else they take up arms and resolve the matter by force (this latter one is very rare, since the cost of war usually drastically outweighs the benefit of whatever favor the aggrieved party feels they are owed). Much of an intrigue campaign will come down to the party putting councillors in their debt in order to demand political favors as repayment.

It’s very rare for someone to declare a blood feud because another noble refused to pay them back for a specific favor. For example, if Duke Albert saves Duke Barry from invading orcs, and then later Duke Albert asks Duke Barry to repay the favor by voting Albert as ruler over the conquered lands of Orctopia after the retaliatory invasion, Duke Barry is under no obligation to say yes to that specific favor. He can turn Duke Albert down and simply remain in Duke Albert’s debt. Duke Albert might not like it, but the rest of the council would likely be unsympathetic to the suggestion that Duke Barry has done something wrong and that Duke Albert therefore has the right to exact vengeance. If Duke Albert tried to exact vengeance anyway, the council would probably side with Duke Barry. So Duke Barry can avoid repaying Duke Albert pretty much indefinitely, but the thing is, if Duke Barry ever needs a favor from Duke Albert, he has no credit. He is already indebted to Duke Albert, and it is practically unheard of to do a favor for someone who already owes you a favor. This is the main check on exploiting the favor system by asking for favors and never repaying them.

A related check is that if Duke Barry indebts himself to several different councillors and refuses to repay any of them, they might all collectively decide to take their debt out of his hide (and probably his lands) because he’s jeopardizing the health of the favor economy. If nobles can’t count on one another to repay favors, then the fabric of aristocratic society will dissolve, and the premise of an intrigue campaign is that the council runs on the favor economy. If favors ever become worthless, it will be exactly as disastrous as if paper money became worthless to a modern economy, and as such councillors and courtiers take threats to the favor economy very seriously. Anyone trying to game the system will likely find themselves enemies with everyone who relies on it.

The Wheel of Intrigue

The second important pillar of an intrigue campaign is the web of relationships between councillors and courtiers. A councillor is someone with direct influence over the organization the players are trying to control. How the council is structured may vary. Some decisions may require a vote, others may be under the sole purview of a specific councillor (i.e. Duke Albert might have sole discretion as to what to do in his own lands, the Minister of Infrastructure might be the only person you need to convince in order to have new roads built, the Grand Marshal might be able to fortify the west against an invasion of orcs without needing the approval of anyone else). Each councillor, however, has friends and enemies. Maybe Duke Albert hates you and won’t accept any favors from you, but he owes a favor to Duchess Cathy. If you do a favor for Duchess Cathy, you can ask her to cash in her favor with Duke Albert on your behalf. Duke Albert doesn’t need to know that you were the one who asked Duchess Cathy to ask him to vote to repeal the late King Reginald’s ban on marijuana, thus breaking the deadlock in the council and allowing the current King Robert to repeal the law without risking a coup from his vassals.

There is an incredible amount of variety in potential council setups and history is rife with weird forms of government that might serve as inspiration, but the easiest place to start is with a council of five, and not just because that’s what Crusader Kings 2 does (though the value of that is not to be underestimated – a decent chunk of D&D players also play CK2 and that familiarity means they’ll be that much less likely to spend twenty minutes sitting around wondering what to do next). Five councillors means a circle like the Magic: the Gathering color wheel, but instead it is a wheel of intrigue where each councillor has two friends and two enemies. This means that the council is small enough for the players to get to know all of them as characters and they aren’t split into two deadlocked factions with only a small number of swing votes actually mattering. Each councillor has a pet issue that they are dedicated to, and usually won’t be swayed from their position on that issue even if it would allow them to repay a favor, and then they support two other policies while opposing another two, which corresponds to their two friends (whose pet issues they support) and enemies (whose pet issues they oppose), but they’ll much more readily change their vote on these issues in order to repay a favor.

Add to this the king. Any given issue has three councillors in support and two opposed. If the king votes in favor of the issue, it now has overwhelming 4-2 support. If the king votes against, the issue is tied at 3-3, but the king’s vote breaks the tie. As such, he can do whatever he wants and not be accused by his vassals of tyranny, but only so long as this delicate balance is maintained. In this setup either the king is an antagonist and the players must use favors and blackmail to undermine his control of the court, or else the players (with or without the support of the king) are in favor of a sixth issue, which most or all of the council opposes independent of the rest of the wheel, however by manipulating the wheel of intrigue to make friends and indebt or coerce enemies, players can get the support they need to push it through.

A minor variation on this setup is to add two more councillors and have them share the same position on the wheel of intrigue as the intended antagonist, someone who plans to ban fun or make neckbeards mandatory or whatever. This means the issue the players oppose has three die-hard supporters and two lukewarm supporters. If one of the die-hards is the king, the party will need to peel both the lukewarm supporters off in order to have enough votes to circumvent the king’s tie-breaking power. The king can always break with tradition and declare in favor of the antagonists anyway (he is the king, after all), but then the players can start gathering up favors from the other councillors for a coup. They might not have been willing to consider a rebellion before, but with the king completely disregarding his council’s advice, they might be more open to it (which is, in turn, why kings do not normally disregard their council’s advice).

Another variation is to add one or two councillors who are wild cards. They ordinarily abstain from votes, but if they owe the party a favor, they’ll repay that favor by voting their way on the council.

All of this certainly makes the campaign very political, but to make it intrigue we also need secrecy and conspiracy. What this means is that the party should not be alone in trying to obtain favors on the council. Indeed, straightforward political alliance-building should be doomed to failure. As an example, assume that the five council positions are represented by the five colors from Magic: the Gathering (I’d use the five factions from the 5e Adventurer’s League, but then I’d have to make my own wheel) with two wildcard councillors plus the king. If the players want the kingdom to set up some hospitals, it should be a simple matter of convincing the king. This is a shiny mana policy, so Lord Shiny votes yes along with Lord Trees and Lord Droplet, his friends. Lord Campfire and Lord Spooky will vote against, and the wildcard councillors will abstain. If the players have convinced the king to vote for Lord Shiny, they win!

So the players do some quest for the king and convince him to vote their way, and then the day of the vote comes and not only do both wildcard councillors vote against the hospitals, Lord Trees votes against, too. The king is in favor, but it’s still 5-3 against, which means he’d have to risk an uprising by overriding the council to pass the hospitals law, and he’s not going to do that. While the party was busy saving the princess from a dragon to get a favor from the king, Lord Spooky called in some favors from the wildcard councillors and promised Lord Trees he’d help him pass a tree mana policy through if Lord Trees helped Lord Spooky kill the hospitals decree. Lord Spooky normally votes against tree mana policies, so this is a pretty big favor, and Lord Trees agrees. Now Lord Shiny’s hospital plan has been killed, and not only that, no one will tell the party why. The wildcard councillors don’t want to own up to having been bribed by Lord Spooky and Lord Trees definitely doesn’t want Lord Shiny to know that he was promised a favor by Lord Spooky, because then Lord Shiny might vote down the upcoming tree mana policy out of spite, cancelling out the benefit from Lord Spooky’s vote. The party will ask each of these councillors what the Hell they’re doing, and all three of them will make some excuse, and if the party doesn’t try to find some answers on their own, now is a great time to nudge them into snooping around for clues.

The players might do any number of things from here, and the example has served its purpose without exploring all of them, however one thing the players cannot do is get a favor from Lord Trees and call it in to ask him to renege on his favor to Lord Spooky. Lord Trees doesn’t own the debt, Lord Spooky does, and if the players want that debt cancelled, they need to put Lord Spooky in their debt, not Lord Trees, even though their ultimate goal is to get Lord Trees to vote yes on the shiny mana decree. Lord Trees has no right to just call off his debt to Lord Spooky, but Lord Spooky is entirely within his rights to forgive Lord Trees’ debt to him, and if it means getting out of debt with the party, he’ll do it. He probably won’t allow the party to do him a favor, but if it’s something out of his control, like if the party save his life in battle, then his options are either to accept that he is in fact indebted to them or else undermine the favor economy, which isn’t going to go any better for him than it would for the players.

Once again, exactly what counts as a favor is subject to interpretation, and Lord Spooky is going to try his hardest to claim he is not in his enemies’ debt, so if the party goes and clears a dungeon in Lord Spooky’s land, he might argue that trespassing on his territory and undermining the peasants’ faith in Spooky’s own ability to keep the peace isn’t any kind of favor. Saving Lord Spooky’s life in a battle that both of them were required by feudal obligation to participate in is something Lord Spooky will have a much harder time getting out of, but it’s also not an opportunity that comes up often.

Councillors and Courtiers

So far we’ve talked exclusively about councillors, people who have direct de facto influence on council decisions. Courtiers are people who have no direct influence on the council votes, but who are apart of the social circle of the council, which means they have some amount of influence over the councillors. This can get several steps removed. Maybe Sir Wallace doesn’t know any councillors personally, but he’s great friends with Sir Jacob, who is the personal bodyguard of Lord Campfire, so if you know Sir Wallace, he can introduce you to Sir Jacob, and then you can persuade Sir Jacob to your point of view regarding Lord Spooky’s trustworthiness (or lack thereof), and then maybe Sir Jacob can convince Lord Campfire to break off his alliance with Lord Spooky. Some councillors may be expected to represent the interests of a council of their own, a duke at risk of revolution from his counts for example, which makes them like a sub-council. If you convince four out of the six members of Lord Droplet’s council to complain about a spooky mana policy, Lord Droplet may feel compelled to vote against the policy even though he’s normally friends with Lord Spooky, for fear that an uprising might put his half-brother on the ducal throne instead.

On the other hand, you could also just talk to Lord Droplet’s wife and oldest daughter and convince them to convince him to cut ties with Lord Spooky. Lord Droplet might not listen to you, but he’ll listen to his family, and his family will listen to you. Maybe they won’t even listen to your arguments, but they will allow you to do them a favor and promise that Lord Droplet’s vote will be altered in return.

Each councillor should have a small network of about 3-7 courtiers attached to them. Then, to make things more complex, give the courtiers relationships with one another, and make those relationships regardless of the political schisms between the councillors. Unless the political situation has reached Capulet vs Montague levels of enmity where there’s intermittent violence between different political factions (and that’s usually not good for an intrigue game, although as with all rules, there are exceptions to this), it’s typical for Lord Shiny’s heir to be friends with Lord Spooky’s bodyguard, even though Shiny and Spooky are bitter enemies.

All of these tricks can be used by the opposition, as well. Lord Spooky might be friends with Lord Trees’ favorite bird watching companion, and using this relationship to convince the bird watcher to convince Lord Trees to act out of character. Severing that relationship might be key to preventing Lord Spooky from mucking with Lord Shiny’s coalition.

Courtiers put more pieces on the board for players to play with, and can allow for councillors who are intransigent by normal means to be put into play through complicated chains of persuasion.

GM’s Guide: Urbancrawls, Megacities, Megadungeons, and Megamysteries  
Posted on July 16, 2017 by Imperium Romanum  
Urbancrawls  
A hex crawl can be split into three main features. Most of the map is covered in hexes that contain quick encounters or short adventures. A few places on the maps contain complex, multi-level, multi-faction dungeons. Then there are the cities where the party can go to rest and recuperate between excursions. Cities are hardly a stranger to adventure and danger, though. In fact, cities usually concentrate crime and corruption just like they concentrate everything else. Put a hundred thousand people in close proximity to one another and the absolute number of thieves, assassins, vampires, and changelings will get high enough for each of them to have their own guild even if the overall density doesn’t budge.

So you’d expect cities to contain some adventure just like the wilderness and the dungeons, and the structure for that adventure is the urbancrawl. Just like hex crawling and dungeon crawling allow a party to explore wilderness and fortresses according to their own curiosity and courage (or foolishness, as you prefer), an urbancrawl lets them explore a city.

Urbancrawls are divided into neighborhoods, each neighborhood containing at least one city adventure, often several. In general, travel between neighborhoods takes no significant amount of time and aren’t impeded by random encounters. Players say they want to go to the docks and they simply arrive. Some specific encounters might trigger “the next time the players try to leave \[neighborhood\]” or “the next time players leave any neighborhood,” but these are rare exceptions to the general rule. Similarly, the basic layout of the city is immediately obvious. Players know what all the neighborhoods are called and what they look like from the start. There is never a question of terrain like there is with hex terrain, where players generally speaking have no clue what even the most basic features of any hex they haven’t been to will be. Traversing an urbancrawl isn’t about literally traversing the distance, it’s about finding needles in haystacks.

Each neighborhood has a number of encounters and adventures associated with it, and each one of those has a discovery DC. Players can roll Investigation to go looking for trouble in a neighborhood, and the DC they’re looking to hit is the lowest DC of any discovery DC in the neighborhood. If they exceed the DC by at least five points, they discover another encounter, provided they also meet that encounter’s discovery DC. For example, say there are three encounters in a neighborhood with discovery DCs of 10, 10, and 15. The party rolls a 15 on their Investigation check. They hit the lowest DC, 10, and they exceeded it by 5 points, so they discover an extra encounter, getting both the DC 10 encounters. They do not get the DC 15, however, even though they rolled a 15, because they’ve already discovered two encounters and they only exceeded the lowest DC of the neighborhood by 5 points. As another example, say the party is in a neighborhood with encounters at discovery DC 15 and 25 and they roll a 20 for their Investigation check. They find the DC 15 encounter and they have five points left over to discover another encounter, but since they didn’t meet the discovery DC of the DC 25 encounter, they don’t find it.

Discovering an encounter almost never reveals anything particularly alarming, but instead just reveals the hook for the adventure plot. For example, hitting the discovery DC means finding out there’s been a murder in the local flophouse, but doesn’t reveal the identity of the person who committed the murders, or it might reveal that giant vermin from the sewer are making off with people’s stuff, but finding out how INT 3 creatures the size of a warhorse figured out how to catburgle requires completing the dungeon that is their sewer lair.

Multiple encounters and adventures in an urbancrawl might all be related to one another, for example, a thieves’ guild might have lots of encounters relating to their racketeering, their dark magic item, the corruption of the town guard, their assassination gigs, and so on, spread throughout multiple neighborhoods. Opposition in the same sub-plot as already cleared adventures might start reacting differently, for example, the thieves’ guild might increase security after a few of their operations are shut down and they realize someone’s after them. If the party isn’t particularly covering their tracks (or especially if they’re bragging about putting a stop to crime), the thieves’ guild might send assassins after them.

There might also be some adventures in a sub-plot with absurd, 35+ discovery DCs, but which can still be located through the other adventures in that sub-plot, for example, the thieves’ guild lair might be extremely well-hidden, but interrogating captured thieves might help the PCs discover it, or you can use the three clues method for a mystery adventure, only instead of placing the three clues that lead to the thieves’ guild lair all in the same adventure, you space them out between several, which means the players will probably have to complete multiple thieves’ guild adventures before they stumble across one of the clues leading to the hideout. Additionally, finding and defeating the leader of a sub-plot antagonist organization, like capturing or killing the head of the thieves’ guild, might automatically clear some or all of the remaining encounters or adventures in the sub-plot.

Megadungeons, Megacities, and Megamysteries  
Megadungeons, megacities, and megamysteries are three campaign structures too straightforward to require complete articles, so we’ll squirrel them away here after the explanation on urbancrawls. A megadungeon is just a single dungeon made so unspeakably vast as to be able to sustain an entire campaign by itself, and a megacity is the same thing applied to urbancrawls. In both cases the only advice particularly needed is already included in the Art of Adventures. In the case of a megadungeon, just make sure you maintain enough variety in both opposition and layout that it doesn’t get dull.

In the case of a megacity, you’re using an urbancrawl to string together lots of encounters and adventures just like with a hexcrawl, and unlike with a hexcrawl there’s no particular process for moving from one location to another. Make sure you have enough content to last 13+ sessions, create a city with enough neighborhoods to contain that content without getting more than 3-4 adventures deep in one neighborhood, and that’s it. Creating that content is obviously not a small task, but it’s all encounter and adventure design, the campaign structure is only slightly more complex than a serial campaign.

A megamystery requires only slightly more elaboration. A mystery campaign is built on the same three clues principle as a mystery adventure, but rather than having the clues contained in a single adventure, some scenes have the clues to them spread throughout multiple adventures. The final scene of an introductory adventure contains three clues, each one pointing to the introductory scene of a completely different mystery adventure. These adventures, in turn, contain more clues to other adventures (some in their final scene, some in other scenes). So long as each mystery contains at least three clues each pointing to other mysteries, and each mystery has at least three clues point to it from other mysteries, it can be reasonably safely assumed that sooner or later players will find all of them. Just like with the standard three clues method from the adventure, if the players miss all three clues, new clues can be produced by having the villains advance their agenda in some way that leaves a new mystery behind, with this mystery containing clues to the start of whatever mystery the players have missed. If this happens often enough, the villains might advance their agenda to the point where they actually succeed in whatever dark ritual they have cooking up, thus prompting the boss fight with Cthulhu at an earlier (perhaps much earlier) level than was planned, which would probably end poorly for the players.

Players need to be prepared to take lots of notes for a full-on mystery campaign, both because this will help them catch clues and more importantly because it will help them keep track of the leads they’ve already found. A single mystery contains clues pointing to as many as three other mysteries, and if players manage to find all three, they could quite possibly forget one of them by the time they’ve solved the other two, especially if they discover even more mysteries while investigating those two, and follow up on those before going back to the one leftover from the first set.

The main question for a mystery campaign is how to structure the ending. You can always just have the climax mystery be sitting on top of a large tower of mysteries. The intro mystery has clues leading to mysteries A1, B1, and C1. A1 has clues leading to B1, C1, and A2. A2 has clues leading to A3, B2, and C2, and so on, just like with a mystery adventure. This is a perfectly reasonable way to build a mystery campaign if you don’t mind risking that a lot of your work will be missed and that at least some of it is virtually guaranteed to be missed. It’s unlikely, but entirely possible, that players will go from the intro to A1, to A2, to A3, to the climax, completely skipping over all six adventures in the B and C columns, over half of the work you’d done. It’s quite likely that players will get through at least one level of the tower without completing all three mysteries on that level (i.e. they’ll do A2, get a clue to C2, then from C2 find the clue to C3 and go up to the third level of the metaphorical tower without ever completing B2).

One way to solve this is by making the goal to solve every mystery, not just the topmost one. For example, rather than the goal simply being to find the head of the cult and stab him before he can summon Cthulhu, perhaps Cthulhu’s dreams influencing cultists and monsters and spawning cyclopean horrors to bring about his own awakening, which means there is no head of the snake to cut off (technically there is, but it’s Cthulhu, who is a high-level encounter if he’s beatable at all), so the players need to put a stop to each cult and star spawn and so on trying to awaken Cthulhu in various different ways. This issue lacks a final confrontation with any kind of central antagonist, but if that’s not something you and your group need for a satisfying conclusion, this method works perfectly well.

Another way of solving the problem is by having the mysteries be an interconnected web but the opposition more linear. For example, the one mystery is about discovering the location of Rlyeh and stopping the cultists from going there to wind up Cthulhu’s alarm clock, another is about preventing them from performing a mass ritual sacrifice when the stars align, a third is about stopping them from recovering the Necronomicon and reading from it the magic spell that will awaken him (I’m aware that I’m mangling Mythos lore a bit here, but translating Lovecraft faithfully into D&D is not the point of this example), but then the actual specific cult lieutenant attempting to complete these rituals happens in the same order no matter what order the players discover and investigate the mysteries. The first one the players investigate is always a goblin cult, the second one is always a vampire and his spawn, the third one is always a mind flayer and his thralls. This has the disadvantage that you can’t make any of your clues have to do with the antagonist of a mystery because the antagonist is undefined until the players begin to investigate. You can’t have the players learn about the cult’s trip to Rlyeh by reading correspondence where they talk about how the mind flayer is off to Rlyeh because maybe the mind flayer is actually the one chasing the Necronomicon. The advantage, however, is that the final confrontation will always be with the primary villain.

You could also have the final confrontation trigger after all mysteries are solved and be some other sort of adventure entirely. Maybe each cult lieutenant holds one fragment of a key to Rlyeh, and the last adventure is a dungeon crawl through the primordial city. This method can be done in stages, so that one web of mysteries, after being entirely cleared, leads to a wilderness journey, which in turn leads to a new intro mystery that leads the party into a new web, thus providing the occasional non-mystery adventure for variety.

Finally, you can always just ask your players to play along. “Yes, you’ve found a lead on the head of the cult, but you also have three other leads you haven’t followed up on, and you’re going to need to chase them all down eventually, so how about we leave the final boss for the end?” This has the disadvantage that it’s a really out of game reason to put off the head of the cult, but if the other methods all require drastic overhauls to your campaign that you think will do more harm than good, there’s nothing particularly wrong with using this option.
