---
title: 'Стрелы всякие разные'
date: '2021-04-28'
categories:
  - 'our-materials'
  - 'articles'
tags:
  - 'ammunition'
  - 'arrows'
  - 'cormyr-1493'
  - 'homebrew'
  - 'заметки'
---

<table><tbody><tr><td><strong>Type</strong></td><td><strong>Weight, lb</strong></td><td><strong>Cost, </strong><strong>gp</strong></td><td><strong>Description</strong></td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Alchemical</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>2</td><td>The forward end of the shaft is a blunt glass tube delicate enough to break on impact, dispersing its liquid contents onto the target. Any liquid that is effective on contact can be placed into an alchemical arrow, including acid, alchemical solvent, alchemist’s fire, defoliant, holy water, unholy water, and all sorts of contact poisons. When fired from a bow, an alchemical arrow halves the weapon’s normal and long-range increments and changes its damage to 1d4 bludgeoning. In addition to damage, a successful ranged attack applies the contained liquid, as though it had been splashed onto the target. A substance that comes in a vial fills one alchemical arrow. A substance that comes in a flask fills two alchemical arrows, but that dose is diluted; any applied damage is halved and any effect that grants a saving throw is rolled with advantage.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Armor-piercing</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,25</td><td>Бонус к попаданию против бронированных целей</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Barbed</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,5</td><td>This piece of ammunition causes bleeding wounds. A creature hit with a barbed arrow or bolt takes 1 point of piercing damage at the beginning of its turn until it uses its action to pull the arrow free. Once pulled free of the wound, the ammunition is destroyed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Blinding</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>0,75</td><td>Arrows with this head have a small clay pot with an opening inside, containing a reactive chemical. On hit, the chemical releases a bright flash, blinding the target if it fails a Constitution Saving Throw (DC 13) until the start of your next turn. Deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Blunt Tip</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,4</td><td>Можно вырубить нелетально</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Broadhead</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,05</td><td>Inflicts bleeding on a failed DC 13 Constitution saving throw. A thick arrow with a broad, winged tip to embed itself in the prey's flesh and then be extremely difficult to remove without causing heavy collateral bleeding and internal damage. &nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Fire</strong></td><td>0,2</td><td>1</td><td>This arrowhead has a small, bulbous cage just behind the tip. The cage holds flammable, fibrous material soaked in an accelerant, like the material used for torches. You may spend a bonus action to knock this arrow and dip the point into an active fire source prior to shooting. A lit fire arrow adds 1 fire damage to the bow’s attack. The arrow might also light highly- flammable materials that it touches, like thatched rooves, dry crops, and the like.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Frog Cotch</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,5</td><td>The head of this arrow forms a razor-sharp crescent, points facing forward, theoretically allowing the archer to cut ropes from a distance. Targeting a rope is a difficult shot; apply disadvantage to the attack roll unless it is made within 10 feet of the target.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Grappling</strong></td><td>0,5</td><td>4</td><td>The head of this heavy arrow has four opposite claws that form a grappling hook. This arrow allows you to use your attack roll in the place of the normal ability check when trying to place a grappling hook. The head of a grappling arrow is attached to a 100- foot length of silk cordage. The coiled cord is spooled or is placed on the ground before firing so that it can unwind as the arrow flies toward its target. The line has loops knotted into it just large enough to serve as footholds for a climber. The cord has 1 hit point and can be burst with a DC 12 Strength check. If used as a weapon, the grappling arrow reduces the bow's damage to 1d4 bludgeoning.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Hollow Tip</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,4</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Hunting</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,025</td><td>Range is halved &nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Noise</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,25</td><td>Стрела издает звук в месте попадания &nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Non-lethal</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,1</td><td>The head of this arrow makes a screaming noise in flight. The sounds this arrow emits in flight can be easily heard within 100 feet of any point along its path.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Screaming</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>0,1</td><td>Стрела издает во время полета пронзительный свист. Часто используются как сигнальные</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Serrated Tip</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,4</td><td>&nbsp;</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Sheaf</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,05</td><td>This is the most common type of arrow used in combat, a sturdy shaft of reliable length, topped by a heavy broadhead or bodkin point. These are normally referred to as just “arrows.”</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Smoking</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>3</td><td>A thin wrap of an alchemical material encases the shaft of this arrow behind the head. You may spend a bonus action to knock this arrow and dip the point into an active fire source prior to shooting, causing the material to smoke vigorously. The arrow trails smoke as it flies and creates a 5-foot cube of smoke wherever it hits. The smoke dissipates in 1d4 rounds, or until dispersed by a wind of at least 10 mph. Smoke arrows are each crafted to emit a specific color of smoke, useful for signaling. &nbsp; This piece of ammunition lets out a blast of smoke on contact. A 5-foot radius sphere centered on the creature or point you hit is heavily obscured until the end of your next turn. Once ignited, the ammunition is destroyed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Smoldering</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>2</td><td>This piece of ammunition has a hollow point containing alchemist’s fire and a simple ignition mechanism. A creature you hit with a smoldering arrow or bolt takes 1d4 fire damage at the beginning of its next turn. Once ignited, the ammunition is destroyed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Splintering</strong></td><td>0,1</td><td>2</td><td>When you hit a creature with a splintering arrow or bolt, it explodes into wooden or bone shards. Each creature within 5 feet of the target must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 piercing damage. Once it explodes, the ammunition is destroyed. &nbsp; When you hit a creature with a splintering arrow or bolt, it explodes into wooden or bone shards. Each creature within 5 feet of the target must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw or take 1d4 piercing damage. Once it explodes, the ammunition is destroyed.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Stabilized</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,25</td><td>This arrow is crafted of materials carefully selected for their aerodynamic properties. With lighter heads and superior fletching, flight arrows are tremendously accurate missiles. When using this ammunition, both the bow’s range increments are increased by a distance equal to half the weapon's normal range increment. For example, normal range of attack of stabilized arrow fired from longbow is 225 feet and maximum is 675 feet. When firing a stabilized arrow, apply a -2 penalty to the damage roll.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, Water</strong></td><td>0,4</td><td>2</td><td>Стрела гасит небольшой источник огня, такой как факел, свеча или незащищенная лампа</td></tr><tr><td><strong>Arrows, standard</strong></td><td>0,05</td><td>0,05</td><td>Standard arrows</td></tr></tbody></table>
