---
title: 'Заклинания для создания волшебных предметов - Enchant an Item &amp; Permanency'
date: '2019-11-04'
categories:
  - 'spells-e5e'
tags:
  - 'craft'
  - 'crafting'
  - 'enchant-an-item'
  - 'permanency'
  - 'spells'
---

### Permanency

6th-level Transmutation

Casting Time: 1 min

Range: Touch

Components: V, S

Duration: Permanent

This spell affects the duration of certain other spells, making the duration permanent. The personal spells upon which a permanent is known to be effective are as follows:

- Detect magic
- Longstrider
- Unseen servant
- Comprehend languages
- Alter Self
- Darkvision
- See Invisibility
- Tongues

The wizard casts the desired spell and then follows it with the Permanency spell. **Each Permanency spell lowers the wizard’s Constitution by 1 point for duration of Permanency spell.** The wizard cannot cast these spells upon other creatures. This application of Permanency can be dispelled only by a wizard of greater level than the spellcaster was when he cast the spell.

In addition to personal use, the Permanency (also with lowering of wizard’s Constitution) spell can be used to make the following object/creature or area-effect spells permanent:

- Web
- Enlarge/Reduce
- Invisibility (Note that any action that break Invisibility will also break Permanency)
- Fear
- Gust of Wind
- Magic Mouth
- Stinking cloud
- Wall of fire
- Wall of force
- Tiny Servant (if tiny servant will be destroyed Permanency will end)

Additionally, the following spells can be cast upon objects or areas only and rendered permanent (without lowering of caster’s Constitution):

- Dancing lights
- Alarm
- Illusory Script
- Fog Cloud
- Grease
- Snare (only affecting duration of Snare before triggering - after triggering Permanency will end)
- Magic Circle
- Scrying (only if Scrying is targeting location and not creature)
- Teleportation Circle
- Programmed Illusion

These applications to other spells allow it to be cast simultaneously with any of the latter when no living creature is the target, but the entire spell complex then can be dispelled normally, and thus negated.

The Permanency spell is also used in the fabrication of magical items (see the 4th-level spell **Enchant an Item**). At the DM’s option, Permanency might become unstable or fail after a long period of at least 1000 years. Unstable effects might operate intermittently or fail altogether.

The DM may allow other selected spells to be made permanent. Researching this possible application of a spell costs as much time and money as independently researching the selected spell.

### Enchant an Item

4th-level Enchantment (Invocation)

Casting Time: Special

Range: Touch

Components: V, S, M (components for enchanting costs min 200 gp)

Duration: Special

This is a spell that must be used by a wizard planning to create a magical item. The enchant an item spell prepares the object to accept the magic. The item must meet the following tests:

it must be in sound and undamaged condition;

the item must be the finest possible, considering its nature, i.e., crafted of the highest quality material and with the finest workmanship; its cost or value must reflect the second test, and in most cases the item must have a raw-materials cost in excess of 200 gp.

It is not possible to apply this test to items such as ropes, leather goods, cloth, and pottery not normally embroidered, bejeweled, tooled, carved, or engraved. If such work or materials can be added to an item without weakening or harming its normal func¬tions, however, these are required for the item to be enchanted.

The wizard must have access to a workshop or laboratory, properly equipped and from which contaminating magic can be screened. Any magical item not related to the fabrication process (such as most protective devices) and within 30 feet of the materials is a source of contaminating magic and will spoil the process.

The item to be prepared must be touched by the spellcaster. This touching must be constant and continual during the casting time, which is a base 16 hours plus an additional 1d8 hours per level of spell which will be casted after Enchant an Item(as the wizard may never work more than eight hours per day, and any other spells will not alter the time required in any way, this effectively means that casting time for this spell is two days + level of desired spell days). All work must be uninterrupted, and during rest periods the item being enchanted must never be more than 1 foot distant from the spellcaster; if it is, the whole spell is spoiled and must be begun again. (Note that during rest periods absolutely no other form of magic can be performed, and the wizard must remain quiet and in isolation or the enchantment is ruined.)

Each spell subsequently cast upon an object bearing an enchant an item spell requires 2d4 hours per spell level of the magic being cast. Again, during casting the item must be touched by the wizard, and during the rest periods it must always be within 1 foot of his person. This procedure holds true for any additional spells placed upon the item, and each successive spell must be begun within 24 hours of the last, even if the prior spell failed.

No magic placed on an item is permanent unless a Permanency spell is used as a finishing touch. This always runs a 5% risk of draining 1 point of Constitution from the wizard casting the spell which can’t be restored by any means but Wish. Also, while it is possible to tell when the basic spell (enchant an item) succeeds, it is not possible to tell if successive castings actually work, for each must make the same sort of Intelligence check. Naturally, an item that is charged-a rod, staff, wand, javelin of lightning, ring of wishes, etc — can never be made permanent - only rechargable. Magical devices cannot be used to enchant an item or cast magic upon an object so prepared, but scrolls can be used for this purpose.

The materials needed for this spell vary according to both the nature of the item being enchanted and the magic to be cast upon it. For example, a cloak of displacement might require the hides of one or more displacer beasts, a sword meant to slay dragons could require the blood and some other part of the dragon(s) it will be effective against, and a ring of shooting stars might require pieces of meteorites and the horn of ki-rin. These specifics, as well as other information pertaining to this spell, are decided by the DM and must be discovered or researched in play.

Основной нюанс длительности заклинания, в том что для высокоуровневых заклинаний и сложных предметов период создания волшебником должен равняться месяцам, а для коммоновых вещей максимум дням.
